Card Game idea: Shader Wars (better name would be nice)

High Level Concept: You're a newbie coder who's trying to becoime known for his demo effects, and decided to try and win a prestigious demoparty competition

Game is a card game, where you're trying to build up the skill set to play the best demo you can in the final "round", which is the competition. The objective is the end the game with the most cred.

A demo is a combination of shaders. Each shader is represented by a card.

To utilize a shader in a demo, you need to develop you skills enough to build it.

You develop your skill by either training, or using your "cred" to get people to tutor you.

The game will play in alternate actions. One per player around the table.

Thinking of some stats you have to let you play different cards.

* Time: You have a finite amount of time before each round ends. Each round represents a tournament on the way to the "big one". 
	The more difficult a demo you create, the more time it takes to put all the pieces together.
	The time to it takes to combine the pieces is inversely proportional to your skill level.
	You can shorten the time to achieve something, by using various methods.
Each card you play, uses up the time you have. When you have no more time, you cannot play any more cards.
* Motivation: This is your internal drive to perform and deliver. As you push yourself to the limits to deliver the most awesome demo, you start to burnout and find it difficult to come up with new ideas
	Motivation is effectively your hand-size. At the start of each round, you refill your hand back to your motivation level
	If you ever hit 0 motivation, you lose interest in then demoscene and drop out (you lose the game)
	I'm thinking, if this gets too low, there can be cards the opponent might play which will affect you detrimentally (e.g. a "bout of depression" etc).
	This might also be replenished by placing well in tourneys?
* Cred: How famous your work has become in the demoscene. This is a resource that allows you to play non-coding cards which can speed up your progress
	You can spend time to do smaller projects which might increase your cred
	You can use your cred to find tutors, which can increase your skill level
	You should be able to use your cred, to attack the cred or motivation or other players.
* Skill: How good you are at coding shaders. Skill is a soft-limit to playing cards. You cannot play shaders of too high skill requirement on your own. But you can try to build slightly harder shaders by paying more time.
* Kudos (Maybe just tokens on cards?):  You gain these by increasing your social goodwill among the community. You can spend them for various effects. Kudos can go negative, but you get penalty to your cred at the end of the game for them.
* Money (Optional) (expansion?) (Maybe just tokens on cards?):  You gain these by taking jobs etc. You can spend them for various effects.

How do you spend time? In your turn, you have the choice to play a card from your hand face-down with one of your time units on top. 
	Single-player:
		* Ever turn you take, you can play one card in your hand face-up (i.e. activated). You lose as much time as the card's time cost
		* Spend 1 time to draw 1 card.

	Multiplayer:
		* Ever turn you take, you can put one time on one face-down card you have. 
			* If a card requires 0 time, you can play it and activate it on your turn without spending time.
			* If a card requires 1 time, you can play it on your turn and immediately spend 1 time to activate it.
			* More than 1 time, and the card will require multiple actions to activate. Which means other players might have a chance to interrupt you somehow
		* Spend 1 time to draw 1 card.



Card Type ideas:

Shaders: The core concept of the game. These should be card with an actually running shader in the art area. A shader itself can be easily copied from the net, but requires time/skill to implement in a demo
	time_cost: This is the time you have to spent in the current round to make a demo utilizing this shader. 
	skill_req: This is the skill required to implement this shader at the exact time_cost: You can implement something of 1 higher skill_req by increasing the time_cost by X. You cannot implement a shader of 2 or higher skill level than you have.
		If your skill is higher than the skill req, then the time_req is reduced by the difference, to a maximum of half time..
	text: Some shaders might have extra requirements or rewards for implementing. They will be listed here.
	
Addendum: Calculation of shader value: The value of a shader should be dependent on a formula to ensure we stay balanced. Abilities on the card should be evaluated to have a power, and the power should be added to the formula

T = Time
V = Value
P = Ability Power
S = skill_req

Current Formula: V = T + S*2 + 1 - P

So assuming P0
T0, S0 = V1
T1, S0 = V2
T1, S1 = V4
T2, S1 = V5
T3, S1 = V6
T1, S2 = V6
etc





	
Resources: These are things like expert people that have agreed to help you in your efforts, as well as knowledge, software, and hardware that help you develop faster
	time_cost: This is the time you need to spent to cajole the tutor ,or learn to use the new tool
	cred_req: The amount of credential you need to have before you can even attract the attention of that tutor
	skill_req: Some tools are quite advanced, so you need to already know the basics
	text: Each resource is different. Their text will explain how they will help you once you've drawn their support or learned to use them.
	
Events: Various one-off cards you can play to help yourself, or weaken your opponents. 
	cost: Events can be wild. Their costs can vary depending on what they do. Some might have time_costs, some might have motivation_cost, some might even have cred_cost
	reqs: Evens can be difficult to pull of. Any of skill, motivation, cred might be required to be at certain levels to pull them off.
	text: What the event will do once played.
	

	
Tournaments: Game has 3 rounds, AKA demoscene tourneys you want to take part in. You objective is to end the game with the highest cred among all other players.
	Tournaments are the main way players will be able to get cred. You are playing shaders in fron of you with which you're building a demo. Each shader has a demo_value and the total of all your demo values is the total points you achieved in this competition.
	Each competition has only 1 winner and 2 thresholds. Any player over threshold 1, games some small cred. Over threshold 2, some more cred. Winner gets bonus cred. Tourneys also allow you to show off your skill, even if you do not win. 
	The 2nd round competition has bigger rewards and the final competition has the most rewards.
	(Optional Idea: Have various competition types, which extra rewards for different sort of demos. Some might reward demos with high-skill shaders. Some might reward better demos with a lot of shaders etc. One will be chosen randomly for each round. They will not affect round value thresholds, only extra rewards. Those rewards might be scaled to the round level (e.g. 1*round_nr)
	With random competition types, the time could also be variable.
	
	
Some card ideas (provisional names):

Circle shader: 
	0 skill_req
	1 time_cost
	demo_value: 1
	
Advanced Shader:
	1 skill_req
	1 time_cost
	demo_value: 2
	

Expert Shader:
	3 skill_req
	2 time_cost
	demo_value: 4
	
Mandelbrot shader:
	3 skill_req
	3 time_cost
	demo_value: 7
	text: After implementing this shader, lose 1 motivation.
	
Some Resource ideas:

Newbie tutor:
	type: Tutor
	1 time_cost
	0 cred_req
	text: All skill_req 1 shaders are reduced to 0
	
Cheerleader:
	type: Collaborator
	1 time_cost
	1 cred_req
	4 motivation_req
	text: After recruiting this tutor, lose 1 cred. You win extra 1 cred for winning a tournament.
	
Guru:
	type: Tutor
	2 time_cost
	4 cred_req
	3 skill_req
	text: All skill_req 4+ shaders are reduced by 1
	
Chiptunes Musician
	type: Collaborator
	2 time cost
	1 cred_req
	2 cred_cost
	text: Increase the value of your Demo this round by 2. Discard after this round ends
	
Graphics Artist
	type: Collaborator
	2 time cost
	1 cred_req
	2 cred_cost
	text: If you use at least 3 shaders of skill_req 1, increase your Demo value by 2. Discard after this round ends
	
Git: 
	type: Knowledge
	1 time_cost
	text: Events that make you lose time, make you lose 1 less time. After your fourth shader to your demo, gain 1 time.
	
Gym Membership:
	type: Meatspace
	You may spend 2 [time] to prevent the loss of 1 motivation.
	
Therapist:
	type: Meatspace
	You may spend 3 [money] to prevent the loss of 1 motivation.
	
	

Some event ideas:

Stims:
	1 time_cost
	text: Increase your skill rating for the next shader you implement by 2. Lose 1 motivation and discard a random card. You cannot play more than 1 Stims per round.
	
Well-deserved rest:
	3 time_cost
	text: Increase your motivation by 1
	
Rumors:
	4 time_cost
	text: If you have more cred than an opponent, decrease their motivation by 1
	
An unofficial demo:
	text: Discard one of your implemented shaders to gain cred equal to its skill_req.
	
	
	
Democparty Competition Ideas:

* Multifaceted
  time provision: 10
  text: If you implement at least 5 shaders in your demo, you gain +3 value. If you implement at least 7 shaders in your demo, you gain +3 cred.
  
* High-tech
  time provision: 10
  text: If you implement a shader with at least 5 skill requirement in your demo, you gain +3 value. If you implement a shader with at least 6 skill requirement in your demo, you gain +3 cred.